<div align="center">
  
  **[Table of Contents][TOC] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]**
  
  [Next]: /expose/01-0.md
  [TOC]: /main#table-of-contents
  
</div>

---

## Summary  

### Mass Murders of Civilians and Allied Soldiers By US-led Groups

This documentation provides details on how civilians, and also allied soldiers of the US, were killed en mass, by various US-led groups due to misuse and abuse of drone based technologies. The word "drones" generally refers to unmanned, autonomous platforms operational on land, in air, at sea, and in outer space. However, here drones and drone based technologies as systems, mainly allude to aerial platforms or vehicles, equipped for reconnaissance and/or combat. 

In particular, the details showcased here, explain the roles of various persons involved in aviation related defense **research and development (R&D) groups** of American, and Canadian origin. Members of such R&D groups deliberately altered the engineering designs, control software, and operational protocols of certain Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS), while British ones endorsed those systems for international use. Their main motivation in making those alterations were to increase the lethality of their autonomous machines by removing or changing particular safeguards, safety mechanisms, design features, and operational protocols that were needed for preventing casualties. Such a decision was made with the awareness that its impacts would be detrimental to human safety for soldiers and civilians alike. The bad engineering decisions and judgments made by those professionals, directly caused death and destruction to allied soldiers as well as civilians during recent Afghan and Iraq wars. 

Many more incidents with mass civilian casualties have occurred over the years due to deliberate abuse of those autonomous systems, which had unconscionably increased lethality and larger area damaging capabilities pre-programmed into them. Additionally, on a number of occasions, this form of killing and destruction was due to the willful targeting of civilians far away from active battle zones, by US-led operators of those kinds of modified drones. During such incidents, military operators took control of the drones via the manual override of avionics installed in those automated machines, to deliberately target civilians in the Middle-East.

The span of time during which such deaths and destruction took place, as known to me at the end of year 2009, was from years 2003 to 2010. However, increasing number of reports from public news agencies since that time period, have highlighted ongoing civilian casualties and destruction to non-military targets from US-led combat groups that have been operating those very same, problematic manned as well as unmanned aerial vehicles for lethally violent purposes, in countries such as: Ukraine, Lebanon, Syria, Yemen, Mali, Somalia, and Sudan.

---
<div align="center">
  
  **[Top :arrow_up:][Top] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]** 
  
  **[Table of Contents][TOC]**

  [Top]: /expose/00-0.md#summary
  [Next]: /expose/01-0.md
  [TOC]: /main#table-of-contents
  
</div>


