<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Table of Contents][TOC] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]**
  
  [Prev]: /expose/01-1.md
  [Next]: /expose/02-0.md
  [TOC]: /README.md#table-of-contents
  
</div>

---

### 1.2 The Hypocrisy and Pretense of Superficially Humble Nation-States

Agents and agencies trained or influenced by American ones[^1], from countries like Canada that tacitly permit, and/or actively perform acts of genocides in the international domain, typically hide their genocidal activities and erase evidences of those inglorious acts, or tend to even whitewash and normalize them, so as to appear laudable in the eyes of the international community. This is similar to the motives and means of serial killers as well as serial rapists and molesters, who conduct their misdeeds and violations, in a manner that is hidden from the community they are a part of, so as to simply "continue to act in accordance with their goals and principles in the protection and promotion of their self-interests while in pursuit of a personal profit, pleasure, or happiness from their deeds," without being held accountable to any public oversight and inquiries. It is just that their interests, principles, sources of happiness, and the methods adopted for pursuing said happiness — were deleterious and hazardous to almost all other people to begin with. But, who can fault them for that? 

Indeed, who can truthfully describe the organized criminality, of state-sponsored threat-actors operating via the support of agencies from North America, and the UK, upon correctly and conclusively proving the contextually relevant facts, about the deleterious nature of their ongoing coordinated activities? And that too, for being placed on the record, so that qualified and competent jurists can scrutinize those facts? It seems that no one is capable of fulfilling the required job, particularly in the face of the predominant culture wherein: state-sponsored *Blue Teams* among allied units across the Atlantic, never seem to be able to find anything untoward or objectionable, about the means and motives of their *Red Teams.* 

When it comes to activities conducted by state-sponsored agencies that cause harms, to targeted civilian individuals or groups, including pernicious activities like eugenics and mass abductions of children who have been systematically abused in "residential schools," an [OECD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OECD) country like Canada cannot be allowed to get away with its genocides, simply because it is able to advertise itself as an international vanguard of basic human rights and civil liberties. Such superficial outlook and artifice, about being an international defender of public good and democratic values, is an integral part of Canada's ongoing systematic state-sponsored crimes, and acts of repression against vulnerable communities and individuals, which allows it to exploit and victimize vulnerable people. 

However, in contrast to clandestine genocidal activities conducted by nation-sates, when it comes to committing lethal and extremely forceful violations against the international community, with an aim of *"Full-Spectrum-Domination,"* the only ones who do not bother to put on a humanitarian mask of innocence while carrying out their acts of belligerence, defilement, and desecration — in full-view of all beings that can witness those violent acts — are the ones that possess the largest stockpiles of earthly treasures and armaments, for orchestrating their plunderous and ruinous activities, at a global-scale, after having already usurped notable emblems of faith and honor from across the world. Those countries are the US, France, and Britain, but not yet their protege-state called Canada. Canada still uses more clandestine socio-economic and policy based institutionalized methods, for committing large-scale inter-generational harms against snared and trapped peoples, instead of being more brazenly militaristic, in its approach towards enforcing mass murders and subjugation of targeted minorities. The specifics of those institutionalized methods are explained in subsequent sections of this documentation. 

And yes, there is also Russia that wants to outnumber the range of mass graves that have been generated in recent decades by American, French, and British forces, but let's focus on Canada because it is on the verge of joining the ranks of those openly brazen genocidal states.

Traditionally, offending Canadian entities have committed genocides more openly, only within their national borders, and usually in the name of "assimilation and integration" of targeted peoples into mainstream Canadian society, behind the curtain of "state's internal affairs." But their involvement in industrially orchestrated crimes and genocides, across international borders, is mainly via material support and acts of facilitation that are hidden from the general public's view (for example: supply of Agent Orange from Canadian factories in Ontario). This might be the preferred method used by Canadian state-sponsored units, because Canada doesn't yet have a seat at the United Nations (UN) Security Council with powers to veto investigations and prosecutions, which can otherwise be set forth by an international court against Canadian citizens and agencies. 

As such, the more important questions are, 

>"Which competent entities on this planet can investigate and prosecute the international crimes of individuals, and organized units, that have state-sponsored protections of secrecy, and immunity, given to them by their national level socio-political and legal systems? How? Under which statutes? And by when can those necessary investigations and prosecutions be conducted with proper resolutions?" 

Also, how much funding, human resources, talent, and authority would an international court need to already possess, in order to prosecute industrially orchestrated war crimes, and to deliver their perpetrators into the courtrooms of publicly accountable justices of international law? Undoubtedly, regularized judiciary actions need to be undertaken by competent international authorities so that restorative, preventative, and punitive measures can be implemented in the aftermath of historical and ongoing, cross-border crimes and offenses. 

Most importantly, **who** is supposed to invest their credence in such an international court of law, for it to be able to legitimately sustain its official powers and international-scale operations? And particularly for the types of powers and operations, that are to provide effective, timely, prudent, and legally binding outcomes. 

You? Me? Who is it supposed to be? 

[^1]: The ones in Whitby, Ontario, happen to be trained by French and Swiss Austrian ones, but I'm talking about the ones in London, Ontario, and Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario, who happen to have had joint training exercises with units from Michigan, Ohio, Virginia, and Texas. 

---

```
Abbreviations:
OECD - Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development 
UK   - United Kingdom
UN   - United Nations
```

---

<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Top :arrow_up:][Top] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]** 
  
  **[Table of Content][TOC]**

  [Prev]: /expose/01-1.md
  [Top]: /expose/01-2.md#12-the-hypocrisy-and-pretense-of-superficially-humble-nation-states
  [Next]: /expose/02-0.md
  [TOC]: /README.md#table-of-contents
  
</div>
