<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Table of Contents][TOC] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]**
  
  [Prev]: /expose/07-0.md
  [Next]: /expose/08-1.md
  [TOC]: /README.md#table-of-contents
  
</div>

---

## 8. Blue Sky Projects Developed, and Deployed via North American Universities

This Chapter first explains what Blue Sky Projects are. It then explains how and why they operate outside, and beyond the reach of the law. This  section introduces a particular one, that I was exposed to as an employee at UIowa, during the year 2008-2009. In 2017, I realized that the Blue Sky Projects I was exposed to, always were, and are still being conducted across international borders of Canada, and the USA. 

### What is a Blue Sky Project?

A Blue Sky Project typically involves a proprietary technology for a product or a service that is owned by a business enterprise. Blue Sky Projects are specifically designed to circumvent or thwart laws governing: 

1. Consumer rights pertaining to: consumer's privacy, confidentiality, safety, and security; the authenticity of purchased goods and services

1. Labor rights pertaining to: dignified treatment of workers at workplace; proper designation of a worker as an employee, instead of being treated as a contractor, when the methods and tools for doing a given job are directly influenced by the employer; receiving equitable pay and accommodations for legitimate, and ethical work, without being discriminated against 

1. Corporate finance and taxation

1. Ethical treatment of vulnerable people

### How do Blue Sky Projects circumvent the law?

A Blue Sky Project take advantage of constraints that limit a judiciary's effectiveness in being able to regulate the project's operations. Limitations of a judiciary system typically arise from the physical inability of a corrupted judicial body, to properly maintain its internal consistency, contiguity, and constancy within an overall government's finite territorial boundaries. This type of a fundamental failure, allows for the malformed judicial entity to keep generating loopholes within statutory laws at municipal, state (or provincial), and federal levels of government. Such loopholes provide undue advantages to particular corporate owners of Blue Sky Projects, at the cost of public well being. 

Any government that cannot detect and correctly identify a corrupted judiciary body, through self-regulated internal affairs, obviously cannot rectify its unidentified, and unacknowledged problems. It is often too difficult for any government officials to admit to any evidence of corruption pertaining to incumbent party members and even ex-officers, which may have been excavated by journalists or public defenders. A government office can be reluctant to admit its faults and errors because of its need to appear unimpeachable in the eyes of critical onlookers known as "voter blocs, and vote banks." Blue Sky Projects take advantage of corruptible and complacent government entities to remain in stealth-mode, for making sure that their illicit and gray-area activities remain hidden from the public, till those activities are normalized within society via government approbations, social adoption of the project's means and ends, and via elapsed time. 

Particularly in defense and aviation related contracts, even if shady dealings from a collusion between a network of corporate owners of Blue Skye Projects, and a number of government officials, are somehow excavated by the government's internal audits, reports of those audits get forcibly classified as state-secrets, by one or the other classifying agency involved in "national security." High courts and military tribunals can be prevented by the Blue Sky Project's owners, from being able to make the classifying agency budge on the topic of declassifying documents related to the Blue Sky Project. Promoters of shady projects involving government contracts, thus take undue advantage of classifying agencies, and of tax-payer funds, especially of pension funds of workers in public service industries, by leveraging the embarrassment government members would face from their dirty secrets being leaked, via direct and proxy based actions committed by owners and financiers Blue Sky Projects. This is why projects with genocidal motives and designs are divided up into several parts, which can then be hidden within multiple echelons of private-public partnerships involving: private companies, public and private educational institutes like universities, and a government's venture capital management firm like DARPA. 

### The boundless blue skies for conducting experiments on captive human beings

The types of Blue Sky Projects I provided details about in previous sections, involved drones and autonomous systems; the details I am about to provide in the following subsection are about work done by **CSL, CCAD (in UIowa, Iowa, USA)** via DARPA affiliation and funding, for creating methods, tools, and techniques used in "enhanced interrogation" of suspects and prisoners. Those projects in UIowa were similar to the set of experiments conducted in **[Allan Memorial Institute, (in McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MKUltra#Experiments_on_Canadians)** They involved R&D of methods, tools, and techniques for conducting biochemical and psychological experimentation, on human beings such as: 

1. captive suspects and prisoners of war, in order to extract actionable intelligence from the prisoners,  

1. medical patients involuntarily held in a hospital or a healthcare facility, to study the mental and physical breaking points of people subjected to various forms of torment and torture. 

Experiments for creating enhanced interrogation techniques were, and are still being conducted in collegiate labs coordinated across international borders between USA, and Canada, to prevent ethics committees in universities of respective countries from being able to scrutinize the procedures, and objectives of Blue Sky Projects funded by military and para-military agencies. This is where one must realize that, the finite territorial boundaries of a regional judiciary system, which prevent it from properly addressing the problems that arise from cross-border international criminal activities, aren't merely geo-spatial in nature, they are also economic, linguistic, managerial, and technological in nature, due to the heterogeneous structure of multi-cultural societies of the world. Blue Sky Projects specifically take undue advantages of the administrative gaps and loopholes that exist between government entities separated by international borders, and also of the gaps and loopholes in laws governing public safety with regards to: new technologies, discoveries, and experimental methodologies.  

Owners and developers of Blue Sky Projects aren't ignorant enough to deny existing multi-national, multi-ethnic, multi-lingual, multi-cultural, multi-modal, multi-seasonal, and multi-spectral realities of the world. That is the good part. The bad part is that they also know how to take undue advantages of the separations that can exist between boundaries of different bands and layers, of real-world pluralities. They do so, for evading: regulatory, tax collection, and law enforcement agencies of their own countries, and also of other nations, to further their socio-economic and geo-political objectives. 

---

```
Abbreviations:
CCAD   - Center for Computer Aided Design (University of Iowa, USA)
CSL    - Cognitive Systems Library (University of Iowa, USA)
DARPA  - Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (USA)
R&D    - Research and Development
UIowa  - The University of Iowa
UK     - United Kingdom
US     - United States (of America)
```

---

<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Top :arrow_up:][Top] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]** 
  
  **[Table of Content][TOC]**

  [Prev]: /expose/07-0.md
  [Top]: /expose/08-0.md#8-blue-sky-projects-developed-and-deployed-via-north-american-universities
  [Next]: /expose/08-1.md
  [TOC]: /README.md#table-of-contents
  
</div>
