<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Table of Contents][TOC] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]**
  
  [Prev]: /expose/10-1.md
  [Next]: /expose/12-0.md
  [TOC]: /README.md#table-of-contents
  
</div>

---

## 11. Competent Authority at Law

>Competent authority: 
>
>An authoritative organization with legitimate primacy and jurisdiction, as well as suitable jurisprudence over matters being presented to it. Also equally important is the ability of such an authority to be impartial, impeccable, and otherwise capable of bearing capacity and responsibility for enforcing valid judgments in a timely manner. Such efforts are to be carried out by said authority and its appendages, without caving into protectionism offered to culpable entities due to weaknesses arising from: complacency, tardiness, bribery, fear of threats, nefarious quid pro quo, errors, favoritism, cronyism, or nepotism. 

Coming to the topic of "competent authorities," in 2019 the only ones that could have addressed the kinds of international crimes explained in Part I of this documentation, were the International Criminal Court (ICC), and the International Court of Justice (ICJ). And most probably those two entities are still the only popular ones in the year 2023, who can be mandated to deal with serious issues like mass murders of civilians conducted using misappropriated unmanned systems by US-led groups. 

Both the ICC and ICJ derive legitimacy and international jurisdiction via treaties and accord, among parties of the United Nations (UN). Unfortunately, these judiciary entities are still incapable of moving as fast as, US-led military units trained for committing mass murders and widespread destruction aimed at annihilating targeted peoples at a global scale; in order to prevent or curtail genocidal activities, and to punish international criminals affiliated to US-led organizations. Furthermore, both of these judiciary entities are deeply indebted for their operations and existence to collaborators, sponsors, donors, and financiers from countries like the US, the UK, Canada, Australia, and the EU. So, can anyone claim that either the ICC or the ICJ is, or can truly be independent, competent, and impartial in cases involving serial mass murders, serial abductions, serial rapes, and cultural genocides that were, and are being facilitated by US-led forces? Maybe.

Then, there is the matter of *the efficacy,* of rulings and opinions published by the ICC and the ICJ. Most industrialized countries can simply ignore and neglect the rulings and opinions of the ICC and the ICJ. Especially the countries that call themselves "super powers," have repeatedly vetoed, all motions for investigations into their war crimes and high misdemeanors, during UN Security Council meetings. What use and worth are the rulings and opinions, that cannot be enforced or enacted by the UN, even after decades of delay that deny solace, justice, and peace to victims and survivors of international crimes? 

As a forethought: What is even to be achieved at the end of the day, if one needs to incubate a larger military force, with much more destructive firepower than Russia or the US, to prosecute the large-scale misappropriations, heinous war crimes, and blatant crimes against humanity, perpetrated by those members of the UN Security Council, that still go around projecting themselves as super powers? 

For instance, does anybody expect judicial proceedings about ongoing massacres in Ukraine, to be carried out fairly and justly, in courts of Russia or Belarus? Or, would Palestinians even be acknowledged, let alone receive equitable treatment in Israeli courtrooms, concerning genocidal incursions of Israeli settlers in Palestine? Similarly, how can one expect any legitimate, equitable, and worthwhile treatment within courts of the US, Canada, and the UK concerning their war crimes, and crimes against humanity? More fundamentally, how is anyone ever going to be able to afford to bring such cases to any type of a courtroom?  

Civilian deaths, including those of women and children, during any warfare led by the US armed forces, are categorized as casualties of war and acceptable collateral damage. According to the US government and its allied entities, those deaths have not, and do not constitute war crimes, or crimes against humanity. Civilian deaths via targeted killings, especially for sport or for genocidal purposes, do constitute war crimes as defined within known, and accepted international conventions. However, even those types of targeted killings have been allowed to continue, by turning a blind eye to reported incidents. 

Even the unrepentant genocidal activities of countries like Canada, are still rampant and ongoing! 

The world has looked towards sovereign nations for guidance, and for sustainability of human rights within a healthy and safe ecology. The US and the UK, through their allied groups of armed forces, corporations, and agencies have only caused every conceivable tomorrow throughout the world to become more polluted, and more violent, than every today. Countries like Russia have only been copying the precedent and examples set by the US, and the UK, in orchestrating annexations with mass civilian casualties, and in willfully causing the devastation of indigenous cultures via the use of their political, economic, industrial, and military resources.

Therefore, given that the need for a legitimate solution, to such time-sensitive and serious issues of international nature, couldn't be fulfilled expediently, efficaciously, and in earnest — by statutory and fiduciary organizations of US, UK, Canada, and the EU — the only remaining avenues available were to have organizations like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of various countries, alongside particular international news agencies, take up the mantle for fighting against such terrible crimes against humanity. This was also a practical and prudent approach, given that US-led forces have habitually orchestrated every dastardly scheme conceivable — to dismiss, belittle, dissuade, discourage, threaten, injure, harm, silence, suppress, and even murder whistleblowers like myself. 

Moreover, I have proper, documented and verifiable evidence — beyond the shadow of any doubt — that coordinated dastardly actions were played out against me and my family, by Canadian agents and agencies, during the years 2019 and 2020. Those multi-pronged and coordinated actions were perpetrated by public service units in Canada with the intentional aim and design to harass, terrorize, discredit, vilify, permanently disable, and to even murder me, so that I could be suppressed and silenced. The toll such attacks have taken on my life and relationships, is a debt that the Canadian government owes me, which is long overdue. 
  
**Therefore, from the above set of paragraphs and discussion, it follows that I have been well within my rights and sensibilities, to fight for my life, dignity, and freedoms — with every ethical means necessary — while I have sought to shed light on the role of US-led forces and R&D groups, in ongoing massacres and organized crimes against humanity. Such organized crimes have continued to inflict harms and injuries upon human habitats, and have defiled the basic human rights of targeted peoples, on a global scale.**

---

```
Abbreviations:
R&D - Research and Development
ICC - International Criminal Court
ICJ - International Court of Justice
EU  - European Union
UK  - United Kingdom
UN  - United Nations
US  - United States (of America)
```

---

<div align="center">
  
  **[:arrow_left: Previous Section][Prev] | [Top :arrow_up:][Top] | [Next Section :arrow_right:][Next]** 
  
  **[Table of Content][TOC]**

  [Prev]: /expose/10-1.md
  [Top]: /expose/11-0.md#110-competent-authority-at-law
  [Next]: /expose/12-0.md
  [TOC]: /README.md#table-of-contents
  
</div>