## Moving on

>I've moved on from being friendly with Ontario, Canada to being neutral, and it appears that time is near, to also move on from being neutral. 

A public office bearer from the **The Law Society of Ontario (LSO)** known as **Ms. Danielle Wilson**, especially had the following two things to evaluate, aside from her other duties, during the years 2021-2023: 

1. On one side of the balance lay the fact that, evidence pertaining to *genocides* implicating Canadian entities was being withheld by a member of the LSO — a lawyer called **Mr. Marwan Osseiran**; on the supposition that, "the evidence was being withheld 'on lien', for non-payment of legal fees 'owed to' Mr. Osseiran" by an individual called Mr. Sameer Khan, for services rendered by the lawyer in furthering Mr. Khan's casework involving that evidence." 

2. On the other side of the balance was Mr. Osseiran's claim that an amount of approximately $700 CAD was owed to Mr. Khan, which was sufficient cause for him to invoke "a solicitor's lien" to withhold the material evidence in his possession, as leverage to obtain that amount and additional money from Mr. Khan, without having filed any petitions regarding Mr. Khan's casework in any court of law. 

<br> 

To further investigate the seriousness and gravity of the situation, the Complaint's Office of the LSO opened a case-file in May-2021, based on my written complaint to them about Mr. Osseiran. In that formal complaint, I stated that out of the approximately $15,000 CAD already paid by me, to Mr. Osseiran over a period of five months, the type of legal council I had received from him had been ineffective, because Mr. Osseiran only kept promising to further my legal requirements without actually filing any paperwork within a court of law. For months, he kept making excuses about having to work on cases of other clients he had taken on after agreeing to represent me. His other repeated excuse in delaying my casework was that, he couldn't find the time to work on them, for he had to move to a new house and office in Toronto. 

My legal matter that was willingly taken up by Mr. Osseiran, after a "free" intake consultation he had with me in October-2020, included two main issues. First was to clear my honor and name that had been besmirched in a libelous manner by a coordinated group of Canadian public-service units operating in Kitchener-Waterloo Region, Ontario. The second was to mail my testimony in affidavit format, along with the original pieces of digital evidence about deliberate mass murders of unarmed civilians by US-led forces via drones, to the International Criminal Court's (ICC's) Special Prosecutor investigating "The Situation in Afghanistan." 

Eventually, Mr. Osseiran asked me to repeat my entire ordeal in how I had come to retain that evidence, and to repeat my testimony for a fourth time, after hearing my testimony thrice over video-conferences during months of November and December, 2020. Those repeated explanations to Mr. Osseiran detailed the involvement of American, British, and Canadian entities in the industrially orchestrated genocide of unarmed, innocent men, women, and children within countries in Middle-East Asia and Africa, throughout the past two decades. 

More annoyingly, during each billed video conference I had with Mr. Osseiran, he would spend fifteen to twenty minutes telling me about *who* he had worked with in the ICC, or about how he had received yet another accolade in the legal industry. I mailed my entire testimony in a typed and printed format to Mr. Osseiran so that he wouldn't ask me to repeat it orally on the phone or during online video-calls. But then we spent the month of January-2021 reviewing the entire written testimony I had sent to him two more times. By February-2021, I had already paid thousands of dollars as retainer fees, while being thrust into financial distress due to the knock-on effect of harms done to me via Ontario's public-service units, and while being threatened by Canadian operatives to leave Canada, on the pains of death. 

That is how, Mr. Osseiran took undue advantage of my grave situation to keep increasing his hourly service fees from $350 CAD per hour, to $500 CAD per hour, while stringing me along with marketing materials about how he "knew the 'inner workings' of the ICC, to further my case at The Hague." I had continued to pay him out of gullibility, and because of the hope and trust I had invested in Mr. Osseiran's professional capacity as a lawyer, especially due to his marketed expertise in dealing with cases involving human rights abuses, cyber-warfare, and cyber-crimes. I later realized that I was only being duped and misguided by Mr. Oessieran!

In the last video call Mr. Osseiran and I had in February-March, 2021, he refused to mail the evidence in his possession to ICC stating that, he did not trust the validity and truthfulness of my written testimony, and of the contents of the USB Stick and Hard Disk I had sent him by registered mail. The USB Stick and Hard Disk in Mr. Osseiran's possession needed to be air-gaped, and were not to be tampered with, or accessed by any persons other than the Evidence Collection Team of the Special Prosecutors Office at the ICC. However, Mr. Osseiran said that because he could not check the contents of those digital devices, he did not trust my word and the printed letter I had sent him, which detailed each file within those digital drives. In essence, Mr. Osseiran breached the trust that needs to exist between a lawyer and a client, while belittling my plight as well as insulting my innocence and credibility. 

So, I had asked Mr. Osseiran to mail the evidence in his possession to the Indian Embassy in Ottawa for safe keeping, if he wasn't willing to mail it to the ICC. I had asked him to do so, because wasn't a Canadian citizen, and was only a Canadian Permanent Resident card holder. Mr. Osseiran had agreed to my reasoning that an embassy of a foreign citizen in Canada would be the appropriate authority for defending the best interests of its citizens in such matters. He had also agreed to write a cover letter, for mailing the materials in his possession to the Indian Embassy in Ottawa, and <ins>we went over the content of that cover letter, word-for-word, as he noted them.</ins> 

At that point in time, a thousand Canadian dollars were still available in the retainer account, and all Mr. Osseiran had to do was, to mail the evidence along with a cover letter to the Indian Embassy, which would have hardly costed him two or three hundred CAD. However, a week following my final instructions given to Mr. Osseiran, when I hadn't heard from him, I wrote to him via e-mail, asking for an update. To which, as a reply, I received a bill with "overdue payment" indicating that he had spent the thousand dollars, reviewing the cover letter a third time, and musing about whether he ought to follow through with my instructions after having agreed to discharge his duty to fulfill the clear, and unambiguous instructions provided to him. 

Those were the way in which, Mr. Osseiran squandered thousands of dollars paid to him as service fees for "research and correspondence", whereby he ultimately failed to provide effective legal advice and services upon breaching my trust, and upon rubbishing the fact that me and my family's lives were at peril because of Canadian state-sponsored bad-actors. That type of unethical behavior caused the lawyer-client relationship between Mr. Osseiran and I to break down completely. So I sought restitution and remedy via the LSO. 

The above pieces of knowledge were made available to the LSO's Complaints Resolution Office in April-May of 2021, along with all of the emails exchanged between Mr. Osseiran and myself showcasing the way Mr. Osseiran had knowingly breached my trust. 

Then, after spending a year on reviewing that data, and upon communicating with Mr. Osseiran about the complaint against him, Ms. Danielle Wilson from LSO's Complaints Resolution Office found that: "Mr. Osseiran had been 'reasonable' in his professional conduct", and was in the right, *for having continued to withhold evidence about genocides from ever being presented to a court of law,* and that too for the sake of his pecuniary interests, even though the terms and conditions about a "solicitor's lien" were never even mentioned in the retainer agreement signed between Mr. Osseiran and myself. 

Subsequently, I sought aid form the Commissioner of the LSO's Complaints Resolution Office about the unconscionable and unethical conduct of LSO's members, namely, Mr. Osseiran and Ms. Wilson. 

Another year went by, and after an interview with me via video conferencing, in which I stressed that I did not owe Mr. Osseiran any money for he had cheated and swindled me, the Commissioner of the LSO's Complaints Resolution Office named, **Ms. Marilyn Marshall**, stated in an e-mail that Ms. Wilson had acted reasonably and appropriately, given the data and fact-sheet made available to her, in accordance to LSO's bylaws and the provincial judiciary's legal frameworks. 

Ms. Marshall came to a conclusions that Mr. Osseiran had provided "effective legal council" in regularly communicating with me about intending to file my casework, and in his suggestion to me that I focus on the portion of work related to sending my testimony and digital files to ICC, instead of simultaneously requiring of him that a motion to clear my name be filed in Ontario's civil courts. She said that Mr. Osseiran was rightly being "vigilant" in doubting the contents of digital devices entrusted to him, and in refusing to mail them to the ICC as well as the Indian Embassy. She agreed with Ms. Wilson's statement that Mr. Osseiran did not need to take any steps in filing motions related to my legal work with any measure of urgency or zeal, because there was no deadline for mailing evidence and testimony to the ICC, (even though I was being fiercely threatened to be suppressed, debilitated, chased away, or killed by Canadian agents during that time.) 

Thus, in her statements, Ms. Marshall implied that she found no forms of ethical misconduct, or manipulations committed by Mr. Osseiran in holding evidence entrusted to him as leverage against me for paying him additional fees; nor did she find any type of faults or errors in the decisions and professional judgments made by Ms. Wilson, with respect to the information available in the case-file of my initial complaint, even in the light of the video conference Ms. Marshall had with me in June-2023. 

It must be noted that the deliberate delays caused by LSO's members in addressing the complaint against Mr. Osseiran, were a clever way to cause attrition, and to cause "statutes of limitation" to run out on cases involving professional misconduct of Ontario's legal industry workers and officer's of the judiciary. 

My name, character, dignity and honor, were insidiously tarnished by coordinated groups of hostile Canadian agents and agencies in a targeted way, to suppress me, while they repeatedly violated my basic human rights. I was continuously harassed for months by the local police, and was then illegitimately detained by them in May-2020, wherein they used fabricated narratives injected into my permanent records with accusations of me being affiliated to militia and mercenaries. Spiking my permanent records with that type of a poisonous accusation, particularly against a Muslim Asian person, is tantamount to being accused as an Islamist terrorist, or as a villainous suspect. That is hideously discriminatory, and deplorably racist on part of those public-service agencies that framed me as a dangerously violent suspect. 

Worst of all, my life's work and my word were maliciously discredited by those agents and agencies, out of pre-existing animosity and explicitly voiced racial prejudices harbored by them against Muslims, and minority groups. Canadian public-service units framed me as a dangerously violent psychopath, and as an imminent threat to society, in order to have me arrested. I was then locked up and interrogated in a substitute jail, where I was tormented and tortured for weeks with deliberate reproductive and visceral harms done to me by those coordinated agencies, under the guise of "medical treatment for psychosis." I was also subjected to entrapment while being surreptitiously administered narcotic drugs, to further establish fake evidence of me being affiliated with militia or Islamist terrorists. 

The entrapment was conducted against me while I was held under duress in the detention facility, wherein I was forced to converse on the facility's landline phone, with a person who had an Arabic accent and Muslim name, and who repeatedly claimed to be my "brother." I was made to speak with that person while being made susceptible to suggestions through a cocktail of psychotropic drugs forced onto me in heavy dosages over the previous days. Upon recognizing that the person could not have been any acquaintance or relative I knew, I refused to speak to him and hung-up the phone. Coincidentally, I do not speak Arabic, and my Canadian healthcare records made available to those harm-doers, wrongly indicated that I am from Middle-Eastern origin. 

Subsequently, I was subjected to further torture by the individual overseeing my detention, and was repeatedly interrogated over weeks by him for about an hour each day, regarding why I wouldn't submit to prioritizing the Christian values and wishes of Canadian authorities in accepting those authority figures as my lords, over my duty to Allah (Subhaan Ta'la) and serving the priority of seeing to my mother's wellness, based on my Islamic cultural values. To make me yield by force, the people overseeing my detention increased the dosage of narcotic drugs being given to me, to cause nerve damage and blood-clots from those drugs that were contraindicated against my medical history. I was even told, point blank to my face, that I was being detained against my volition during Ramadan and Eid, to see what I would do and how I would react, if I were held in captivity and denied the ability to perform customary supplications for Eid. A Christian priest was also sent to me while I was being put through systematic torment and bio-chemical torture, to "cure me" of my "unhealthy Islamic priorities and delusional belief system."  

All of that ruinous harm and violence thrust upon me, by state-sponsored Canadian agents out of their xenophobia and bigotry, led to the death of a child my wife and I were planning to have, and to the complete destruction of our married and professional lives. Finally, in attempting to save my ex-wife form further harm being done to her by those Canadian agents, and to be a caregiver to my elderly mother who was, and is still suffering as a breast-cancer survivor with complications resulting from her full mastectomy and chemo-treatment, I had to escape Canada. 

In July-2023, LSO's Commissioner of Complaints Resolution Office, Ms. Marilyn Marshall, in a complicit manner, closed the case about Mr. Osseiran's unethical behaviors. She dismissed the matter after having dragged her feet for more than a year in even trying to address it, well-knowing that the evidence pertaining to genocides implicating Canadian citizens and organizations, had been withheld from being presented to appropriate authorities for more than two years by the deliberate wrongdoings of LSO's members. Thus, the LSO took matters outside of its legal jurisdiction into its own hands, to forcibly cast a judgment upon the international survivors and victims, of genocides and human rights violations in Middle-East Asia and Africa, whereby LSO's forced judgment summarily denied the veracity, validity, applicability, and significance of the material evidence provided by me to Mr. Osseiran, and deliberately blocked it form being presented to an international court of law. 

Mr. Osseiran burglarized evidence of international-scale mass murders, serial rapes, and human rights violations; withheld that evidence for more than two years with aims of extortion; and then in July-2023, he destroyed that original evidence out of spiteful and malicious intentions, all the while receiving aid, comfort, encouragement, and protection form the LSO for obstructing international justice. Supposedly, all of that was "well within the bounds of reasons, ethical codes of conduct, and the broader interests of the LSO, as inculcated among its professional members and Ontario's bar association." 

<br>

>**As demonstrated by Canadian judiciary systems, the weight of tens of thousands of Muslim civilians murdered along with millions of people displaced from their destroyed homes and cities in the Middle-East and in African countries, can be outweighed by a single lawyer's greed for a few more hundred dollars after that lawyer had already pinched thousands of dollars from a victim of Canada's state-sponsored hostilities, terrorism, religious repression, and suppression.** 

<br>

It is evident that members of the LSO prioritized their "broader interests" to hide their shame and embarrassment, in having their dishonorable designs, adversarial attitudes towards minorities, and corrupted ethos with engendered cronyism, come into light of public scrutiny. Such systematic violations and cover ups, only compound the attrition and pernicious wounds caused to victims, and survivors of state-sponsored genocidal activities, due to the apathy and contempt shown by Canadian public-service officials in upholding truthful, impartial, and legitimate justice. Those officials include, but are not limited to, the ones currently occupying leadership positions at the LSO. The seething hostility and treacherousness, ever lurking just below the veil of humanitarian outlook donned by those deceptive professionals, and colluding state-sponsored groups, is now plainly observable.  

As such, Canadian persons and organizations that have systematically contributed in doing overt as well as covert harms, to Muslim communities, minority groups, "Indians", international residents, and to my relationships, happen to include, but are not limited to the various types of misconducts, felonies, and offenses repeatedly and systematically committed by: 

- Dr. Gnaneswaran (Lakeshore Hospitals Corporation i.e. LHC), for deliberately and forcefully harming targeted persons in a systematic manner via cruel and wrongful practices;

- Dr. Ihab Sorial (LHC), for medical malpractices with murderous intent;

- LHC healthcare professionals, staff, employees, and contractors who handled my data, and those who subjected me to wrongful medical procedures;

- Judge Zeigler (Justice of the Peace, Ontario); 

- Officers Negrazis and Finch along with their supervisors (Waterloo Regional Police Services, i.e. WRPS);

- Officer Heaton and his patrol partner (WRPS) from the first two weeks of May-2020, if they have difficulty in remembering me, ask them what the value of *a flattened Loony* is supposed to be, and about which one of the two cheated on their police entrance exam; 

- Dr. Alexandra Paventi Douglas and her supervisors (Canadian Mental Health Association, i.e. CMHA), for serial man-slaughter via systematic harms and gas-lighting; 

- Social worker Scott Grant and his supervisors (CMHA), for colluding with Dr. Douglas in systematically fabricating evidence to do harms, against targeted vulnerable people;

- CMHA staffers and employees who had framed me by fabricating evidence for the application of legal writs against me, to have me arrested and subjected to politically motivated punitive medicine;

- Staff, employees, contractors, and volunteers of CMHA involved in maintaining privacy and confidentiality of client records; 

- Dr. David Leveck and his supervisors (Grand River Hospitals and Clinics, i.e. GRHC) for deliberate medical malpractices, disservice, and punitive medicine administered against targeted groups of people; 

- GRHC intake social worker and staffers who contorted my statements following my false arrest on 14th May, 2020, and for their systematic collusion with CMHA to arrange and facilitate false arrests of people from "Middle-East Asia"; 

- GRHC healthcare professionals, staff, employees, and contractors who handled my data, and those who subjected me to wrongful medical procedures, especially those working in the Emergency Rooms, on 14th to 16th May, 2020; 

- Dr. Andrea Bunker (GRHC), particularly for dereliction of duty of care, and willfully orchestrated medical malpractices throughout the Kitchener Region and Peel County;

- Dr. Abraham Popoola (GRHC), particularly for systematically tormenting and harming non-Christian persons;

- Staff, employees, and contractors of GRHC involved in maintaining privacy and confidentiality of client records; 

- Promoters, proprietors, and users of "Health-IM" and "itnerRAI BMHS" software suits, which includes members from University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario;

- College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario (CPSO);

- Ontario College of Social Workers and Social Service Workers (OCSWSSW);

- Health Canada;

- Universities Canada;

- Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC);

- Offices of the Mayor, City of Kitchener, Ontario, for allowing and facilitating the aforementioned types of coordinated and systematic violations to be committed against targeted persons and communities.

- Mr. Marwan Osseiran;

- and the Law Society of Ontario (LSO). 

<br>

Expecting bare minimum truthfulness and legitimacy from Ontario's publicly funded fiduciary institutions is... foolishness. Like many, I too have been a fool. 

---
### Disclaimer

It is my firm, principled belief that: misuse and abuse of secrecy and anonymity, especially in aiding and abetting the prevalence of corruption or genocidal activities, is illegitimate and wrongful. 

Therefore, the names and affiliations of certain persons have been reveled in this article as per my right to a victim's statement, and as a matter of personal testimony and autobiography of my genuine lived experiences in Canada. The names and professional affiliations of those persons have not been revealed in this documentary with any harmful or exploitative intentions. Furthermore, they are not being doxed as their personal contact details and addresses have never been provided here, so as to protect their privacy. 
